In this advanced information era, efficient transmission of digital images has become a major challenge in
information technology. Vast volumes of digital images are shared over Internet every day. In the meantime, the
number of people who are using mobile devices to access to Internet is increasing exponentially. High resolution
images need greater bits for storage and transmission. It would take considerable time to fully render a high
resolution image on the browser screen. Considering the bandwidth consumption over multimedia communication,
having an effective compression coding scheme with low bitrates is crucial to enable the effective and fast
transmission of image data over the network.Bitrate refers to the number of bits—or the amount of data—that are 
processed over a certain amount of time. In audio, this usually means kilobits per second. For example, the music
you buy on iTunes is 256 kilobits per second, meaning there are 256 kilobits of data stored in every second of a song.
The underlying basis of image compression is reducing the amount of data (bits) used to represent the image. 
The compression process removes redundant data (details) from the image contents. There are two types of compression 
methods: lossy and lossless. The formal method discards redundant
data from the image content to reduce the image file size. This method will cause the information loss during the
compression process. Thus, the resulting image will have a tolerable degree of degradation in the visual quality.
Lossy compression has been widely applied on multimedia file where the quality loss of the resulting digital media
is not noticeable but the file size can be reduced significantly. On the other hand, lossless compression maintains the
quality of the original file when the file is decompressed.
This study applies the statistical approach to discard the redundant features of digital images that consume the
storage space. Generally, high resolution image can be perceived as high-dimensional data. Image data is
represented in the form of two-dimensional matrix pixel in a problem space. Each pixel element contains bits value
for RGB to represents a pixel's colour. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is a technique to reduce the
dimension space presented by mathematic functions. This technique extracts the fundamental properties of a linear
system. PCA has been widely applied to discard noise data in digital signal
processing, image recognition as well as solving classification problems.
The transmission time of the original and the resulting
image can be compared in two different modes of Internet access which is via desktop and mobile devices. 
